# A Self-funding React Blog with Amazon S3 and Google Ads
### May 31, 2018
======

I've long felt the impulse to start a blog if not for anything else other than to simply have a journal of sorts to record what I learn. I've used various free methods (blogspot, wordpress, etc.) but I've found my power to affect these sites severely limited. I've hosted my own full-powered site via [DigitalOcean](www.digitalocean.com) but being an intensely cheap person, I just couldn't stomach paying about $10 a month to host it while also wondering what would happen were a post to magically go viral.

I've written a very, very simple react app to show the blog. The code for this blog can be found on [Github](). I currently build this manually and deploy to S3 manually. It's simple, straightforward, and exactly what I needed. There is one problem I have right now which is that every visit will necessarily download __all__ of the posts on the blog but that isn't a concern in the near future. I can simply archive old, unpopular posts on a separate free site. (need to include that I'm using a json file as a data source)

But will this blog cost me anything?

According to [Amazon's S3 pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/), as long as I keep the site's total data below 5 GB (to stay in the free tier) worst case scenario is that I would pay *0.0035004* cents per visit. If I can keep the data for the site around 1 GB (totally doable) it becomes *0.0007004* cents per visit. There is also the fixed cost of $12 a year for the domain name to overcome. This also assumes that this site won't be in the "infrequent access" category. (need to include the first free amount of requests)

The goal here is not to make a butt-load of cash. I just want a free blog that I can customize to my programmer heart's content. [One estimate](https://www.quora.com/How-much-does-Google-AdSense-pay-you-per-view) shows that AdSense will pay *0.00010* cents per visit at the lowest end for just a view. Assuming that not more than 30% of my visitors are using adblock, I'll break even with variable costs. Every visit will be at least free. Whether or not I overcome the $12 domain name registration fee is a matter of how well I blog. That's good enough for me. Maybe I've found a customizable blogging solution that won't tug at my frugal heart? I have found what is at least a good start.

